STIMULUS:

Stimuli were presented at fixation.
The four possible stimuli were either a single digit (1 or 3) or three digits (1 1 1 or 3 3 3).
In other words, either one or three numeric 1s or 3s were presented.
Above each target stimulus, either the words, “What number?” or the words “How many?” appeared, depending on which task was being performed on that trial.

Children with ADHD and controls in Alabama were run using an IBM ThinkPad 760 laptop computer (Intel Pentium-75) with a 12.1 inch active matrix LCD screen.
Responses were made using the 1 and 3 keys on an IBM numeric keypad attached to the laptop.
Controls in Illinois were run on Gateway 2000 desktop computers (Intel 486- 33) with 14 inch RBG monitors.
Responses were made on the numeric keypad attached to a standard 101-key key- board.
Subjects sat about 60–80 cm from the monitor or laptop screen.
This distance allowed easy discrimination of the stimuli.

Three separate blocks of trials of the task-switching paradigm were administered during each experimental session.
The first block included only “What number?” trials, the second included only “How many?” trials, and the third block (task-switching block) alternated between these two tasks after every second trial.
For the first block, subjects were to identify the numeric value of the dig- its presented, and for the second block, subjects were to identify the number of digits on the screen. Half the tri- als contained stimuli that were response compatible (i.e., the task that was currently being performed and the other task—1 or 3 3 3) and half the trials contained response- incompatible stimuli (1 1 1 or 3).
The first two blocks contained 24 experimental trials each, and the third block contained 72 experimental tri- als. Trials were subject-paced, in which a response on one trial initiated the next trial. A variable response–stimulus interval (RSI) of 300–600 ms was used for all blocks. In all blocks, the task cue appeared at the same time the imperative stimulus appeared. When errors were made, a 100-ms, 1000-Hz tone sounded. Total time to complete the experiment was about 15–20 min. Sufficient practice to learn the task, typically 10–20 trials, was provided be- fore each block. Breaks were allowed between blocks, when needed. Figure 1 illustrates the time course of an experimental trial.